Between my fingers and my thumb.
It rests so quiet and never dumb.
Sliding and gliding on the open page.
It keeps me busy in my bookish cage.

Its life flows from its fountain of ink.
With which it makes the longest link.
It pricks and probes with its nifty nibs.
Its shiny tooth; its eloquent teeth

Digging and daring from the days of old
An ancient tool forever bold
A world of words from its fluent tongue.
The magic of music; the endless song.

With its inky fountain, there's a glowing fire.
We stoke it deep and it takes us higher.
Silent warrior with the thunderous word.
Forever mightier than the mightiest sword.
Parenting or better still child rearing is the process of meeting the physical and social development of a child beginning at infancy right to the point where the child in turn provides the same needs to another. Hence it is not confined to a biological relationship even though this is desirable and expected to span up to a certain point in time. 
In the typical family setting, the parents of the child would assume ownership and every bit of responsibility as it pertains to the child in question. In some other occasion by reason of happenstance, the responsibility is shouldered by a legal guardian, aunt, uncle, an older sibling or the extended family at large. However the truth remains that all these ought not to have an impact as pronounced as that of the parents of the child which in this case is the Father figure and Mother figure. The reason for the liberality and the not-so-deliberate attitude of parents towards their life long role of parenting is attributed to the nothing other than the demands of the secular jobs of Parents.
The twenty first century parent is faced with the challenge of having to balance work and family. Research has shown that more than half of full-time workers in the UK (majority of which are parents) would prefer to work fewer hours. Parents in the UK spend up to 40 per cent less time with their children today than they did 40 years ago. The same UK survey goes on to suggest that parents are not content with the amount of time they are able to spend with their children, reading, playing and helping them with their homework’.   There appears to be some sort of what I’d rather call the ‘time crunch’ which has almost become universal. One study found that over half of full time workers were concerned about having too little time, with a quarter believing it was impossible to have a good family life if they were to progress in their jobs. The truth, however, is the fact that Parents today are demanding a greater measure of control over their work schedules so that they can better balance work and family responsibilities. And, in fact they are able to select from a whole range of options that will enable them to do just that. There is such a thing as ‘job culture’. The ‘job culture’ defines work as the activity which gives life its greatest meaning and most significant rewards. As a result, work takes precedence over all other demands of our time including family. This is nothing less than the idolatry of work which should be seen for what it really is since a job has expanded at the expense of a ‘family culture’. Difficulties in managing this work-life balance have a detrimental impact on the quality of relationships between parents and children and the parent’s responsiveness to the child with implications for child outcomes.

MATHEMATICS AND THE GIRL-CHILD.
 Written by: AYOOLUWA ADELEKE
 In a day and age like ours, there has never been a more critical need than we are faced with to address and reconcile the terms ‘young minds’ and ‘mathematics’. With the advent of technology and the ever evolving advancement of the same, it is time we came to terms with the ugly truth that rather projects the ineptitude of the younger generation in this part of our world to a subject as crucial as mathematics.
Right from time, the term ‘literacy’ and its proof has been entrenched in the ability to read and write and articulate thoughts and ideas in a crystal clear manner. For this reason, we have remained reluctant to reconnect the all-encompassing relationship that literacy has with a deductive and vibrant analytical mind. It would therefore be foolhardy to get acquainted with this reality and yet either see it as needless to have it discussed or as that which should be addressed on another fateful day when the sun is up and the sky is blue. 

So whilst the veracity of the affirmation remains yet incontrovertible, it is safe to add that the girl child’s ability for dealing with math problems forms an integral part in her quest to attaining a desirable level of literacy and thus provides the girl child the chance at thriving and staying relevant in the post-secondary school world.  If we must help her embark on this quest, we must also have a beautiful picture of the end in mind when we decide to do so. 

In helping the girl-child learn mathematics, it is most important to have the interest and attention of the child. Once this is gained, we can make do with it in any way whatsoever as with a hunter who must out strategize its prey and now decides what to be done in the event that he hits his target. Just as he’ll have to lure the prey either by setting a trap or engaging the net (for a fisherman), she must be lured into seeing the subject as fun, engaging and most of all, desirable. This brings to mind the case of one who had mathematics introduced to him with the caption ‘Number Games’. The caption of the subject matter sufficiently aroused a keen interest in mathematics. When he would eventually begin Basic Education [Primary One], he had now been informed that he’d be taking a subject called Mathematics. After much thought and wonder as to what the subject could be possibly entail, he finally realized that Mathematics had been the Number Game he had been lured into while at mid-school the whole time. 

So fundamentally, an effective method to helping the child learn would be to have the interest of the child channeled into the subject and have the same interest well-nurtured. Ultimately, the intent is to nurse the interest in the subject and nurture this interest until such a time as when the child’s curiosity is significantly aroused. She now begins to eagerly anticipate a forthcoming mathematics session. It is vital to note that an attempt at engaging the child in the subject without a prior arousal of interest is tantamount to building castles in the air. When this happens, except for those whose interest have already been drawn to the subjects, students with little or no interest would prefer to skip a Mathematics class or not even pay rapt attention when in class.  The reason for this is not far-fetched. The concept is totally alien and they’d rather not expend energy at finding a supposed unknown commonly termed ‘x’. Whether it is to solve an unknown term or to plot the graph of some vague function, they care less as to what problem they are asked to solve or resolve. In their world, an attempt on their part is akin to an effort in futility.

Mathematics, as with every other science subject and perhaps to a large degree, requires in-depth reasoning and uttermost devotion. A concept or topic is introduced and well explained with plethora of examples coupled with instruction aides where available and necessary. Its essence would be to broaden and yet deepen the understanding of the learner as touching that concept. This way, the mind of the learner now becomes further enlightened as touching the subject matter. She is then made to internalize the concept by brooding on the topic of discourse whilst being availed the chance at seeking clarification when in doubt. When she harnesses this privilege that teaching and learning readily avails, the antennas of her analytical mind become further sharpened and exposed to plausible alternatives to explore in analyzing a similar problem and consequently proffering an intelligent solution to the math problem posed at the learner in a detailed, well spelt-out and scholarly approach. Believe me when I say that for a teacher, there is no greater delight.

It is vital at this point to stress the role that the teacher plays at having students learn mathematics. A mathematics tutor, more than anyone, occupies a strategic role as far as education and literacy is concerned and as such should never be undermined and must never feel so. The math teacher stands the chance at making an indelible mark in the mind of the learner – which in our instance, the girl child. Where possible, teachers could endeavor to relate to the plight of the young minds they are set to impart. A feasible way would be to relate their own stories of how their interest in the subject had blossomed to such a point that they could offer to seize the privilege to teach mathematics when the opportunity came knocking. A time-tested fact about this approach is seen in how vulnerable and impressionable young minds become in the face of a story especially in their formative years. When a teacher dares to identify with the plight, travails and circumstances of the learner and then sheds the beam of hope letting them realize they stand a chance at thriving in spite of seemingly insurmountable odds, students often let down their guard and would offer to be helped. In a mixed school setting, the capacity of the girl child must never be undermined or portrayed as inferior to that of their male counterparts. She must be told and reminded that she carries with her just as much intellectual strength for brain rigor as do her male contemporaries.

Behind every outstanding student of mathematics is a diligent, tenacious, persistent and yet patient tutor. From a supposedly myopic and biased observation, a student with a high performance in mathematics seldom performs poorly in science related subjects and even the arts. In fact, I dare say that this accounts for the reason a science student who doesn’t necessarily offer literature or poetry as with counterparts in the Arts Department sure performs just as good and at times even better at arts related subjects including English Language or Debating societies. The reason is not far-fetched. The same degree of hard-work and toil channeled at a subject as knotty as mathematics is the same measure of toil and at times even less that certain other subjects would sure require. Hence the need for the present-day mathematics tutor to be aware of what power lies at his beck and call to fortify, equip and empower the girl child withholding nothing. The outcome afterwards is usually desirable and favorable.

WHAT GOES AROUND COMES AROUND! 
By AYOOLUWA ADELEKE
Hassan had just returned from the three-week yuletide break and was now en-route to FGGC Tambuwal – his Place of Primary Assignment. He had spent almost two days on the road from Southern Nigeria and had been literally famished from the long and tedious journey. In fact, he had to delay his final phase of the trip since he needed to have his monthly clearance with the LG Inspector at Sokoto.
As he approached the school, his heart beat skipped faster. He couldn’t exactly place the reason as to why this was so. He was probably anxious, excited and elated at the privilege availed him to nurture the minds of young ones and impart with knowledge sufficient or required to make them into what he hoped they aspire to be. Yet, he was worried that he was not neither prepared nor equipped for what was ahead.
 As he approached, the security officials by the first gate seemed to have made a signal he could not make sense of. He decided not to bother about this and thus requested the bike man to proceed towards the second gate. He alighted right in front of the main gate, paid his fare and was now about to make his way into the entrance. No sooner had he turned did he realize that the main gate was now under construction. His concern was as to how he was going to make his way into the premise. He walked a little closer and realized that the gate had not been locked. He gently opened the gate and managed to get his belongings into the school compound. Gratefully, he shut the rusty gate and was headed to the Corpers’ Lodge. All of a sudden, a young cyclist from nowhere Hassan could exactly pin point halted right in front of Hassan so that Hassan could not move any further. He turned off the engine and muttered. ‘Go and take the second gate’.
 Apparently, he was one of the security guards who had seen Hassan on the motorcycle move past the first gate and had stopped at the second. Hassan patiently explained that he could not have taken the second entrance on purpose if he had known there had been an alternative. Besides, having to make him go through the school to take the second entrance was such a long walk seeing that he had to move his entire luggage all at once.  This interesting bike man showed no mercy. Hassan had no other option than return out of the school’s first entrance into the second not minding that it was quite the same distance. It was no big deal for him. After all, there was nothing nobler than being reminded by a common security guard on the need to maintain a sane estimate of one’s self. The painful lesson he’d learnt was enough for him to ponder and hold dear to his heart. There was no reason to hold a grudge or nurture an offence or a suffered wrong. He was keen on making sure that no occasion would prompt him to share the incident with anyone.
Few weeks later, Hassan was beckoned upon by a teacher at the staff school. She narrated that a family would require a corps member coach an eleven year old who was ridiculously handicapped. He could barely spell a two-letter English word let alone say his name. Together, they deliberated on a time convenient for both parties to come visit the family in order to discuss the compensation plan. They had arrived the house in good time but had to wait for the man of the house before the negotiation could proceed further. The mother of the lad inquired in the native tongue.
“You should know my husband… he works at the school gate”. She remarked lightly.
“I might have met him… But I sure wouldn’t know who he is.” Hassan answered calmly.
Not long after, the man arrived. He walked into the room. Hassan looked up to have a glance at the father of the lad who had just walked into the room. The mother of the lad was right. Hassan had met him once. It was the wreck less cyclist from the other day, the security guard who had double –crossed him and had showed no mercy when Hassan had to literally swallow his pride to have done so. He couldn’t even extend his hand towards Hassan for a handshake. Perhaps the shame hunted him that much.
“Have you two met?” she inquired from her husband.
“Yes, we had a fight once.” He replied lightly.
“No, we did not.” Hassan quickly remarked as though with the intent to prevent him from speaking. 
The woman seemed confused. She thought it right not to proceed further but to rather address the issue that had brought the corper into the residence instead. After all, she could ask him all she’d love to know when the corper was gone. Her countenance seemed to have given away this notion.
When we walk out on relationships and treat people with disdain or treat people the way we feel they should be treated and not the way we would rather have others treat us, we slam the door of such relationships too badly. We have revealed our total incompetence at nurturing relationships effectively. Since what goes around comes around, situations and circumstances might later arise thus prompting us to come knocking on the door of these relationships. The truth however, is the fact that situations and circumstances might prompt us to come knocking on these doors. By this time, we are left with no choice other than approach this door perhaps for a favor or some other reason, the shame and guilt that might have welled up in our hearts would never make us even dare to knock again on those doors. Hence the need to nurture our relationships ensuring that we never stay long enough being at logger heads with people. You know why? Because eventually, what goes around comes around. 

